back to [Tapestry Theory main page](https://github.com/wds4/tapestry-protocol/blob/main/tapestry-theory/README.md)

Overview of Tapestry Theory
=====

The tapestry method of knowledge representation and curation is a proposed solution to the problem of reaching decentralized linguistic consensus, also referred to as loose consensus. The problem is this: How does a decentralized group of entities agree on the rules and symbols they use to communicate? This is a consensus problem, and we consider it to be the core challenge for the creation of the decentralized web. It is analogous to another consensus problem, the Byzantine Generals Problem. Just as Nakamoto consensus is the solution to the Byzantine Generals Problem that paved the way for Bitcoin, the tapestry method is our proposed solution to the problem of decentralized linguistic consensus which will pave the way for the decentralized web.

The tapestry method is divided roughly into two parts: knowledge representation and knowledge curation. The tapestry method of knowledge representation begins with the recognition of mathematics as a universal language. Consensus on the existence of logic and basic mathematics, including the logic and math behind basic set theory and graph theory, is presumed, even if consensus on the particular symbols used to represent those ideas is not. According to the tapestry method, knowledge is broken into pieces which are organized into a graph, with structure over the graph provided by principles of organization, the first of which is the class thread principle (Fig 1). Additional principles are added as needed, with the understanding that they should be as few in number and as simple as possible if they are to be widely adopted.

The tapestry method of knowledge curation presumes the existence of a web of trust to help us build a decentralized language on top of the principles of organization. In contrast to the principles of organization, which are as few, as simple and as universal as possible, language is understood to be intricate and detailed: lots of words, lots of concepts, lots of symbols, and lots of rules about how to use those symbols. These details are not intended to be universal; they are specific to the community in question. Many of the decisions regarding these details are arbitrary; the “correct” decision is the correct one simply by virtue of the fact that everyone agrees on it. The primary function of the web of trust is to calculate how much influence to yield to any given entity in any given context in the selection of these linguistic details. The web of trust is also used to arrive at consensus over facts and information which is true or false, not arbitrary; however, consensus over the arbitrary details of language comes first.

